Newsletter - How to get a great job at a great startup (#8990)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/newsletter/how-to-get-job-startup.md

---
title: How to get a great job at a great startup
date: 2024-07-18
author:
  - james-temperton
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713521535/posthog.com/contents/blog/evolution-of-founders.jpg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - People
crosspost:
  - Blog
---

We get a lot of job applications. In the last two months, we’ve had 900 people apply for engineering roles:

* 86 got a first interview
* 55 got a technical interview
* 10 did a [SuperDay](https://posthog.com/handbook/people/hiring-process#4-posthog-superday) 
* 4 were hired 

![hiring engineers](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/hiring_hogs_e172cf51da.png)

That means we hired 0.4% of people who applied for engineering roles.

So, how do you join the 0.4% of superstar engineers – not just at PostHog, but at any other fast-growing startup?

> 

Reviewer: Unwritten step 1, be good. How to prove this:
- Other people saying you are good (AKA referrals) are the best way to do this.
- Tangible proof you've done the thing the company needs (build products 0-1, scale infrastructure, improve querying, etc)

Author: this is a very good point. let me find the right place for it and work it in

## Think like a recruiter 

First, some hard truths. There’s a huge gap between what job applicants and recruiters experience. With the exception of very early-stage companies, most startups will use an applicant tracking system like Ashby, Greenhouse, or Lever for hiring. These are designed for speed, not to make you look good. 

You need to think about the information density of your application – less dense is good – and also avoid any formatting that the application system is likely to remove. Keep it simple.

The same rules apply for your resume. Prioritize clarity over design. Black text, white background, no fancy graphics. And please, no profile pictures.

![juraj application](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/coverletters_9d4dbdb02e.png)

> ### Brevity is your friend

Reviewer: I think we can cut this section and combine with the one before and after. The time numbers are great and should be included, but the other points are repeated multiple times.

Author: yup, will keep here cut the repeats lower down

Reviewer 2: +1 to Ian's point here

A startup recruiter will, if you’re lucky, spend more than a few seconds reading your application. Brevity and clarity are key to try and ensure your application isn’t quickly dismissed.

We did the math and, on average, we spend less than one minute reviewing each application we receive. Automated or junk applications (hello, ChatGPT) will be discarded in less than five seconds. Truly great applications will be read for up to five minutes.

> ### Spend time on a short cover letter

Reviewer 2: I don't love this heading. It's kind of like "spend time doing thing". Could be more direct about what people should do here.

> And we mean short. Five to ten sentences is fine. Don’t rewrite your resume. Keep it is simple, remember, the applicant tracking system will break all your formatting.

Author: ```suggestion
And we mean short. Five to ten sentences is fine. Don’t rewrite your resume. Keep it is simple.
```

> And we mean short. Five to ten sentences is fine. Don’t rewrite your resume. And remember, the applicant tracking system will break all your formatting, so keep it simple.

Reviewer: You start two sentences with "and" in this paragraph.
```suggestion
And we mean short. Five to ten sentences is fine. Don’t rewrite your resume. Keep it is simple, remember, the applicant tracking system will break all your formatting.
```

Match the company’s tone – if the job ad is informal, don’t start your cover letter with ‘Dear Sir/Madam.’ And never, ever, use ChatGPT. Not even to help you with a draft. We’ll know, it’s always obvious.

> Particularly strong and succinct cover letters we’ve received recently all include the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Particularly strong cover letters we’ve received recently include the following:
```

* An explanation of exactly why you want to join a company – and why the company should want to hire you.

* A clear understanding of the company, its values, what it is trying to achieve, and an explanation of how you can help.

> * A genuine and deep knowledge of the product you’ll be working on.

Author: ```suggestion
* Good knowledge of the product you’ll be working on.
```

Reviewer 2: Could we add a point to include when you're available / notice periods / restrictions etc. This is in Juraj's letter and speaks to "thinking like a recruiter".

> * A genuine and deep knowledge of the product you’ll be working on.

Reviewer: I don't really know what this means. You can have a basic knowledge of the product, but a deep knowledge rarely happens (unless someone is a user of your product already, which we probably are a unique situation of having a lot of).

Author: fair point, will tone down the language here a bit

* Do a little something to make you stand out. For example, as part of his application, Marcus, one of our support engineers, [opened a PR](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/4922) to add him to the team page. It certainly got our attention.

![marcus application](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/marcushof_2dbd558b21.png)

### One simple, annoying trick

> Get ready to groan, but there’s one thing that will really help: get a proper, warm referral. We trust our team’s judgment, so a referral can really help us pre-filter applicants. 

Reviewer: Were any of the 4 referrals? I feel like a relatively high percentage of people who get into PostHog are referrals

Reviewer: This is just like the most important point but we don't want to put it first because it is boring to read.

> ### One simple, annoying trick
> 
> Get ready to groan, but there’s one thing that will really help: get a proper, warm referral. We trust our team’s judgment, so a referral can really help us pre-filter applicants. 
> 
> This does not mean you should randomly spam people on LinkedIn for an intro (this never works), but it does mean you should work hard wherever you go and leave a good impression. People talk to each other. And, who knows, one day maybe they’ll talk about you and be really nice.

Author: ```suggestion
### One simple, annoying trick

Get ready to groan, but there’s one thing that will really help: get a proper, warm referral. We trust our team’s judgment, so a referral can really help us pre-filter applicants.

How do you get a warm referral? Bombshell: be a great human and a great engineer. So good, in fact, that other human beings will attest to your greatness. 

This does not mean you should randomly spam people on LinkedIn for an intro (this never works), but it does mean you should work hard wherever you go and leave a great impression. People talk to each other. And, who knows, one day maybe they’ll talk about you and be really nice.
```

> This does not mean you should randomly spam people on LinkedIn for an intro, but it does mean you should work hard wherever you go and leave a good impression. People talk to each other. And, who knows, one day maybe they’ll talk about you and be really nice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does not mean you should randomly spam people on LinkedIn for an intro (this never works), but it does mean you should work hard wherever you go and leave a good impression. People talk to each other. And, who knows, one day maybe they’ll talk about you and be really nice.
```

> ## Ask the right questions

Reviewer: Does this actually help? Have people said "yes" to the people we hired because they asked good questions during the interview?

Can we look at the Ashby feedback for the people we hired and see what the feedback is for them? Would be interesting to see the real reasons and optimize for that.

Author: yeah, this is a point james h has made in the past and made in a recent youtube interview. it for sure helps to ask the right kinds of questions

### How much runway does the company have?

Or, simply put: is the company default alive? A company with very little runway and no product-market fit is likely to have a challenging culture. Asking these kinds of questions will get you much closer to understanding what the company is like to work for than lazily asking about the company’s culture.

Sure, a startup might not be profitable – but it should have a plan to be profitable before it runs out of money. If it doesn’t, ask why. Avoid companies that don’t know if they’re default alive or not – or don’t care about it. 

### If you could throw money at a problem and solve it immediately, what would it be?

Superstar engineers are laser-focused on working out where a company is struggling and how they can help. Asking this question shows you want to understand our biggest problems and are ready to throw yourself into solving them by shipping and shipping fast. 

If you get the role, you need to be proactive in speaking to users, understanding problems big and small, taking ownership of them, and fixing them.

> ## Know the signs of a great engineering role

Reviewer: I feel like this is interesting but not really relevant to getting a great engineering role. If I put myself in the shoes of a junior engineer trying to get a job, I'm applying to any place that has an opening. 

If I'm a really senior engineer, a referral/recruitment + brand + finances matter much more.

Author: i think it's good to have this in the mix of points, and is something we're especially strong on so worth making some noise about. but agree we want to big up the referral point and some other points higher up. will tweak elsewhere but suggest we keep this as is

Reviewer 2: I think the idea is right, it just needs be less "this is what makes a good ad" and more "here's how to pick a winning company".

- A bit like with the cover letters, it would be useful if we could have some side-by-side of a good ad versus a bad one, just to make what we're talking about more real.

- I think we could add some nice advice around recognising signs of traction, such as:
  - Researching mentions of the company on social. Are they seeing spontaneous word-of-mouth?
  - Check Google Trends to see if there's a growing trend of searches for their brand.
  - Who are the investors? What's their track record?

- Does the funding match the volume of hiring? - i.e. are they over hiring, hiring lots of sales people despite limited funding?

- Background of founders. Are they first-timers, or have previous exits? Are they "serial" founders who haven't found any success.

There's more we could write, but I think this + what we already have would add a lot more actionable / tactical advice people can follow.
